# The Exponential Mechanism

## Definition
One of the most common DP Mechanisms used is called the Exponential Mechanism, and soon we will understand why. But first, let's do some formal definitions.

```
ğ’Ÿ: domain of input dataset

â„›: range of `noisy` outputs

â„: real numbers
```
Let's define a scoring function f:ğ’ŸÃ—â„›â†’â„^ğ‘˜ where it returns a real-valued score for each dimension it wants to evaluate, given an input dataset ğ‘¥âˆˆğ’Ÿ and a output ğ‘Ÿâˆˆâ„›. In simple terms, such score tells us how "good" the output ğ‘Ÿ is for this ğ‘¥ input.

Given all of that, the Exponential Mechanism is:
```
â„³ (ğ‘¥,f,ğœ€)=output ğ‘Ÿ with probability proportional to ğ‘’ğ‘¥ğ‘â¡(ğœ€/2âˆ† f(ğ‘¥, ğ‘Ÿ))
```

or simply:

```
P[â„³(ğ‘¥,f,ğœ€)=ğ‘Ÿ] âˆ ğ‘’ğ‘¥ğ‘â¡(ğœ€/2âˆ† f(ğ‘¥, ğ‘Ÿ))
```

The âˆ† is the sensitivity of a scoring function.

## Sensitivity
Formally, we can define the sensitivity of a function as being:
```
For every ğ‘¥,ğ‘¦âˆˆğ’Ÿ such that ||ğ‘¥âˆ’ğ‘¦|| = 1, âˆ† is the maximum possible value for ||f(ğ‘¥)âˆ’f(ğ‘¦)||.
```
But why is it important? This value help us understand our data and balances the scale of the noise that must be added, so it makes sense to the data we are analising.

Imagine a case where the data we want to add noise is a colored image, with RGB values for each pixel ranging from 0 to 255 for each of the tree colors. We need to add a noise to each subpixel that can (with no difficulty) reach values from -255 to 255, so when we look the value of a single subpixel, we don't know what value it was initially.

But if we apply this exact same noise to a black and white image, where each pixel can be whether 0 (black) or 1 (white), the noise will be much bigger than the data, and almost all the utility will be lost. For this case, the noise must have a smaller scale.

The sensitivity balances the scale of the noise with the possible values the data can reach.

## Privacy
We are not going to demonstrate that the Exponential Mechanism is ğœ€-differentially private it here, since it can be easily found and would deviate from the purpouse of this project. But feel encourajed to try to demonstrate yourself, or to search for it!