# The SSE Recipe

With all the accumulated learning of this project, we compiled what we learned in designing a DP mechanism into the SSE Recipe (Sensitivity, Scoring function and Experiments), a simple set of three rules to guide you in implementing your DP solution from the ground up.

After this dive into the Differential Privacy world, and with all the learning associated with that, we came up with a simple little guide on how to develop your own DP solution. Applying DP Mechanisms carelessly can lead to wrong and unwanted results, that is why it is important to be careful while implementing such mechanisms in order to preserve both privacy and utility of the data.

Let us go to the recipe. This is called the SSE recipe, and it is divided in 3 parts:

1. Sensitivity: the first step is to know the data you are dealing with and be able
to know (or even control) its sensitivity.

2. Scoring Function: in order to define your scoring function, you need to know
your goal. Depending on what you want to extract from your data, you design a specific scoring function. After that, you will automatically be able to write down your mechanism (using the Exponential Mechanism with your scoring function).

3. Experiments: we have seen along this project that privatizing data can be tricky. Before putting your brand-new privatizer function in production, make sure it works as you expect, and preserves both privacy and utility. Feel free to use the Differential Privacy we built with this project.


We hope with these three steps you will be able to succeed in implementing your DP solution. The first step – sensitivity – is part of the data analysis and collection; you need to know what you are collecting and how. Basically, you need to know your data.

Designing the scoring function can be difficult at first. But if you are simply experimenting with DP, or don’t want the data to change its basic structure after applying the DP mechanism, then you probably want to use the Laplace Mechanism. It preserves the data structure and has a really simple implementation. As described in chapter 2, the scoring function is used in the Exponential Mechanism. If you need to design your own scoring function (and cannot use the Laplace Mechanism), then you are going to need a little bit of mathematical skills.

Experiments are always important. Without them, you are not going to be secure that your solution works. The good part of this step is that the Differential Privacy Lab already provides a simple structure for DP tests and is open source.